Important points from the rfc specific to servers :

1. A server SHOULD return 414 (Request-URI Too Long) status if a URI is longer than the server can handle.
Note: Servers ought to be cautious about depending on URI lengths
      above 255 bytes, because some older client or proxy
      implementations might not properly support these lengths.
      
2. For example, the following three URIs are equivalent:

      http://abc.com:80/~smith/home.html
      http://ABC.com/%7Esmith/home.html
      http://ABC.com:/%7esmith/home.html

(HANDLED)  HTTP/1.1 clients and servers that parse the date value MUST accept
   all three formats (for compatibility with HTTP/1.0), though they MUST
   only generate the RFC 1123 format for representing HTTP-date values
   in header fields.

4. A server which receives an entity-body with a transfer-coding it does
   not understand SHOULD return 501 (Unimplemented), and close the
   connection. A server MUST NOT send transfer-codings to an HTTP/1.0
   client.
   
 5.  The presence of a message-body in a request is signaled by the inclusion of a Content-Length 
 or Transfer-Encoding header field in the request's message-headers. 
 A message-body MUST NOT be included in a request if the specification of the request method 
 (section 5.1.1) does not allow sending an entity-body in requests. 
 A server SHOULD read and forward a message-body on any request; 
 if the request method does not include defined semantics for an entity-body, 
 then the message-body SHOULD be ignored when handling the request.

For response messages, whether or not a message-body is included with a message is dependent on both the request method and the response status code (section 6.1.1). 
All responses to the HEAD request method MUST NOT include a message-body, even though the presence of entity- header fields might lead one to believe they do. 
All 1xx (informational), 204 (no content), and 304 (not modified) responses MUST NOT include a message-body. 
All other responses do include a message-body, although it MAY be of zero length. 